keep hanging baskets and potted
arrangements around your home looking
fuller longer with a little care
it's called deadheading which means you
regularly remove any old blossoms or
seed pods from the plant the reason we
do deadheading is because all flowering
plants are supposed to produce a blossom
which then turns into a seed head and
once it puts out its seed head and
recedes itself it has done its job it
has lived its life expectancy so it
slows down so we as gardeners sometime
back have realized that if we cut off
the old blossoms and we cut off that
seed head we're tricking the flower into
blooming more first you want to get your
hanging basket down where you can see it
looking at any old foliage some of them
you can just simply pull out some you
want to cut back we would want to go
down and cut back to the next leaf node
and make a cut this is going to promote
new growth to come out as you're going
through I'm deadheading you want to make
sure that you'd make a clean cut a lot
of people you know you can use your
fingernail but a good shears or a good
pruning device is really helpful in
making that clean cut if you don't make
a clean cut you're asking for disease to
enter in the stem there when it's dying
off undercutting is also really
important not only is dead heading but
when you undercut you you want to go
from underneath and start thinning that
out because what happens is it gets
really leggy so if you go in and you
kind of just start thinning out you're
also promoting more growth by doing that
and sometimes they say like 25% of your
basket can be thinned out within two to
three days it's going to reproduce new
shoots here we've got this beautiful
sweet potato vine and it's going to grow
as one vine and you see underneath there
it's it's going to start kind of dying
out because it's not getting the proper
air ventilation so what we'll want to do
is we want to go in and prune
our vines and our flowers again going
back to the the next leaf node making a
clear cut this is going to promote this
to grow two stems out and thicken out
and not be that long leggy look that
sometimes we see that's how you fill in
a nice full basket and what we mean by
haircut is just going in and not really
paying attention to where you're cutting
and just going in and making good clean
cuts and promoting new growth sometimes
our flowers are just tired
they're straggly they're spindly and
just by going in and making good
haircuts and really this is the best for
this plant right here like these pansies
these are a cool season crop they love
it in the springtime and they love it in
the fall when it's cold so in the middle
of June these will kind of start slowing
down the blossom process so what you can
do is you can go in and just give these
a good haircut just you know just like a
lawnmower go in and mow em off by doing
that you're you're not only promoting a
thicker healthier growth but you're kind
of doing what perennials do over the
winter you're letting them you know slow
down and rejuvenate for fall growing
Angie says with proper care your hanging
baskets and flowering plants can keep
looking great all summer long visit
menards.com for more information on this
and many other projects to stay
up-to-date on all of Menards how-to
projects subscribe to our channel here
you